---
layout: Circuits and Literature review 
title: "Day 10 – Learning Circuits "
date: 2025-06-09
author: Chidubem Chidebelu
---

### What I Learned
I learned how to construct and model a smart trashcan project today using an Arduino and a breadboard. I now have a better grasp of how electronic parts like ultrasonic sensors function and how to incorporate them into practical applications thanks to a variety of tutorials, such as the Instructables guide and other YouTube videos. Additionally, I learned how to virtually recreate the circuit using TinkerCad Circuits, which made it easier for me to see how each component of the system works and links. My comprehension of circuit design, sensor input, and fundamental Arduino programming was strengthened by this practical experience.

### Blockers
I ran into a few obstacles while working on the project. Understanding how the ultrasonic sensor operates and how to connect it correctly in the TinkerCad environment took some effort. It also took several tries to write and modify the Arduino code so that the smart trashcan lid would open and close appropriately based on distance readings. In order to follow along precisely and make sure everything worked as it should, I had to pause and replay parts of some of the lessons because they progressed quickly.

### Reflection
I'm pleased with my performance today. I learned a lot about how hardware and software can collaborate to solve practical issues by building a smart trashcan with Arduino and modeling it in TinkerCad. My confidence in working with circuits and simulation tools has increased as a result of this project, and I can't wait to investigate more intricate IoT projects in the future.

